# Chapter on outcome from DPKI academic research


## Introduction:
As time goes by, the use of distributed PKI takes more and more important than the centralized PKI. This change can be (partially/mainly) attributed to the increasing importance of IT security. On the one hand, centralization, on the other, the opposite. Thanks to decentralization there would be the possibility of eliminating, or reducing, the impact of the single point of failure, the CA. Which is not impenetrable to cyberattacks [[1](#references)][[2](#references)][[3](#references)]. The CA can be seen as a single point of failure because in the worst scenario, it can be compromised and a malicious actor could create a fake certificate and trick the user into believing that it is a real one.

### Explanation of the different types of technologies:

Decentralized PKI can be divided into two main categories[[4](#references)]:
- **Log-based DPKI**: This solution is mainly used to monitor the CA. Indeed certificates are not valid until they are logged on append-only public logs. Anyone can read the logs and so monitor the CA for suspect certificates. The first log-based solution is Certificate Transparency [[5](#references)], proposed by Google.
- **Blockchain-based DPKI**: This solution can be split into two parts:
    - Hierarchical: it is still a partially dependent version of the CA. It can be considered a log-based DPKI, the only difference is the use of the blockchain. For this reason, this solution is called "relaxed centralization"
    - Web of Trust: typically replace CA with miners in public blockchains, certificates are generated by mining.

In the text below we will use the term **consensus** which should be defined as follows: There are various types of consensus such as:
- *Proof of Work* (PoW): it is used in the famous Bitcoin blockchain and many other forks of Bitcoin itself. The system requires miners to compete with each other to be the first to solve "mathematical problems". The more a miner has computing power, the more likely it is to be chosen.
- *Proof of State* (PoS): it will be used shortly by Ethereum. PoS eliminates the problem of having a large calculation capacity in favor of a random choice of the miner.
- Byzantin Fault Tolerance (BFT): there are various versions of it, like HotStuff [[6](#references)] or DPBFT [[7](#references)]. The procedure can be seen in three phases: 
	- Pre-Prepare phase: the leader initiates the consensus procedure by sending a signed pre-prepare message that is a block proposal containing a certain number of transactions.
	- Prepare phase: Upon receiving the pre-prepare message, each node in the consensus group checks the correctness and validity of the block and multicasts a signed prepare message (yes/no) to all other nodes.
	- Commit phase: Each node, after analysis of received prepare messages, multicasts a signed commit message (yes/no) to the consensus group. The block proposal is committed to the blockchain only if a sufficient number of nodes in the consensus group agree on it.


### Description and analysis of the potential candidates:

There are various papers about DPKI, some log-based, some blockchain-based. For this project, we will focus on the Web of Trust because we think blockchain could be the future. But also because placing trust in a single authority would increase the risk of attacks. In this way, the latter is not eliminated but could be significantly reduced also thanks to the fact that everything is completely transparent and accessible to all.
The principal proposed scheme is DBPKI[[4](#references)], theoretically proposed by Toorani and Gehrmann. The consensus is based on BFT. This scheme includes three main units with different jobs. *Root units*, _Intermediate units_, and _Ordinary units_*. Only root and intermediate units can participate in enrollment, revocation, and update procedures while any node can accomplish the verification procedure.

Another important scheme is Certcoin [[8](#references)] based on Namecoin [[9](#references)] blockchain. It uses PoW as consensus. It includes two versions: one that supports efficient verification using accumulators, and a version that supports efficient lookup which is based on an authenticated distributed hash table.

The main purpose is to use the Ethereum [[10](#references)][[11](#references)][[12](#references)] blockchain; with the possibility of modifying it slightly, with the characteristics of the DBPKI, to meet our needs.


### References:

[1] Enisa, "Operation Black Tulip: Certificate authorities lose authority". Available at: https://www.enisa.europa.eu/media/news-items/operation-black-tulip

[2] PhilipHunter. Verisign attack highlights where the real risks and fears lie. Available at: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1361372307700362

[3] Axel M. Arnbak & Nico A. N. M. van Eijk1, Universiteit van Amsterdam, Faculty of Law, Institute for Information Law. "Certificate Authority Collapse". Available at: https://deliverypdf.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=224027017022099112069084027088097120034088085082033007113020119000022122104104024106005038115104046010035023070006102100028096121014024022061107112070016073091011087036049055088083120010002123002122006064105125125010000067084122084100073105009077103024

[4] Mohsen Toorani, Christian Gehrmann. Department of Electrical and Information Technology Lund University, Sweden. "A Decentralized Dynamic PKI based on Blockchain". Available at: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2012.15351.pdf

[5] B. Laurie, A. Langley, and E. Kasper, “RFC 6962: Certificate transparency,” Request for Comments. IETF, 2013.

[6] Maofan Yin, Dahlia Malkhi, Michael K. Reiter, Guy Golan Gueta, Ittai Abraham. HotStuff: BFT Consensus with Linearity and Responsiveness. Available at: https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3293611.3331591.

[7] Xu Hao; Long Yu; Liu Zhiqiang; Liu Zhen; Gu Dawu. "Dynamic Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance". Available at: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8433150

[8] Conner Fromknecht, Dragos Velicanu, Sophia Yakoubov. "A Decentralized Public Key Infrastructure with Identity Retention". November 11, 2014. Available at: https://eprint.iacr.org/2014/803.pdf

[9] Alisha Gupta, Bhushan Chaudhary and Pratibha Dwivedi. "A Comprehensive Study on Namecoin". Available at: https://ww.easychair.org/publications/preprint_download/7cmv

[10] https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/

[11] Martin Valenta, Philipp Sandner. Comparison of Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric and Corda. June 2017. Available at: http://www.smallake.kr/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/2017_Comparison-of-Ethereum-Hyperledger-Corda.pdf

[12] Seoung Kyun Kim, Zane Ma, Joshua Mason, Andrew Miller, Micheal Bailey, Siddharth Murali. "Measuring Ethereum Network Peers. Available at: https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3278532.3278542